'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2013 Darik Horn <dajhorn@vanadac.com>. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH zhack 1 "2013 MAR 16" "ZFS on Linux" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
zhack \- libzpool debugging tool
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility pokes configuration changes directly into a ZFS pool,
which is dangerous and can cause data corruption.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "zhack [\-c " "cachefile" "] [\-d " "dir" "] <" "subcommand" "> [" "arguments" "]"
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
.BI "\-c" " cachefile"
.IP
Read the \fIpool\fR configuration from the \fIcachefile\fR, which is
/etc/zfs/zpool.cache by default.
.HP
.BI "\-d" " dir"
.IP
Search for \fIpool\fR members in the \fIdir\fR path. Can be specified
more than once.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.LP
.BI "feature stat " "pool"
.IP
List feature flags.
.LP
.BI "feature enable [\-d " "description" "] [\-r] " "pool guid"
.IP
Add a new feature to \fIpool\fR that is uniquely identified by
\fIguid\fR, which is specified in the same form as a zfs(8) user
property.
.IP
The \fIdescription\fR is a short human readable explanation of the new
feature.
.IP
The \fB\-r\fR switch indicates that \fIpool\fR can be safely opened
in read-only mode by a system that does not have the \fIguid\fR
feature.
.LP
.BI "feature ref [\-d|\-m] " "pool guid"
.IP
Increment the reference count of the \fIguid\fR feature in \fIpool\fR.
.IP
The \fB\-d\fR switch decrements the reference count of the \fIguid\fR
feature in \fIpool\fR.
.IP
The \fB\-m\fR switch indicates that the \fIguid\fR feature is now
required to read the pool MOS.
.LP
.BI "scrub " "pool"
.IP
Import and scrub a pool, entirely from userland.  This is mostly useful for
developers and is substantially less friendly than scrubbing an imported
pool.  In particular, there is no status reporting mechanism, and so
any discovered errors are not easily identified.
.IP
The \fB\-D class\fR option specifies the DDT class(es) to scan specially.
Setting \fBclass\fR to 0 will limit special handling to dedup-ditto blocks.
The value 1 will ensure that the scan will visit all deduplicated blocks with
refcounts greater than one a single time, but will require that the DDT be
frequently accessed during scan.  The value 2 will cause the scan to walk all
DDT entries, including those with refcount one, and will then not need to probe
the DDT during the residual scan of non-deduplicated blocks.  The default
behavior is as if the value 1 had been specified.  Pass \fB\-E\fR to attempt to
change the DDT class on an existing scrub; the tool will refuse to execute any
unsafe change (i.e., downwards).
.IP
The \fB\-n\fR option causes the program to only resume a scrub (or resilver) if
one was in progress at time of export; that is, it will not begin a new scrub.
Contrawise, \fB\-R\fR will forcibly restart any existing scrub or resilver, and
has no effect if one was not in progress at time of export.
.IP
The \fB\-r\fR option requests the tool to (re)start a resilver rather than a
scrub (the default).
.IP
The \fB\-i seconds\fR option controls the inter-checkpoint time of the scan.
That is, every \fBseconds\fR seconds, the scan will drain its queue of blocks
to scan in media order.  The \fB\-M\fR option overrides ZFS's detection of the
amount of physical memory to use, limiting the ARC and the scan queue.
.IP
The \fB\-G\fR, \fB\-H\fR, \fB\-P\fR, \fB\-S\fR, and \fB\-T\fR options affect
internal parameters of ZFS and are almost surely of interest only to developers
seeking to characterize the scrub algorithm; for details, please see the source.
.IP
Give \fB\-v\fR to cause the command to be verbose during operation, regularly
writing terse status information to stderr.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.nf
# zhack feature stat tank

for_read_obj:
	org.illumos:lz4_compress = 0
for_write_obj:
	com.delphix:async_destroy = 0
	com.delphix:empty_bpobj = 0
descriptions_obj:
	com.delphix:async_destroy = Destroy filesystems asynchronously.
	com.delphix:empty_bpobj = Snapshots use less space.
	org.illumos:lz4_compress = LZ4 compression algorithm support.
.LP
# zhack feature enable -d 'Predict future disk failures.' \\
    tank com.example:clairvoyance
.LP
# zhack feature ref tank com.example:clairvoyance
.SH AUTHORS
This man page was written by Darik Horn <dajhorn@vanadac.com>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zfs (8),
.BR zpool-features (5),
.BR ztest (1)
